.TH ZLG 1 "May 2026" "zlg 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
zlg \- searchable compressed log archive utility
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B zlg
.I command
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B zlg
compresses plaintext logs into experimental .zlg archives and searches those archives without fully decompressing every chunk when summaries can skip irrelevant data.
.PP
The file format is experimental and pre-1.0.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B version
Show version information.
.TP
.B compress
Compress a plaintext log into a .zlg archive.
.TP
.B decompress
Decompress a .zlg archive.
.TP
.B cat
Write decompressed archive content to stdout or a file.
.TP
.B grep
Search a .zlg archive.
.TP
.B head
Print the first lines from an archive.
.TP
.B tail
Print the last lines from an archive.
.TP
.B test
Validate archive structure and chunk integrity.
.TP
.B info
Show archive metadata.
.TP
.B stats
Show content, storage, and format statistics.
.TP
.B convert
Convert an already-compressed log into .zlg.
.SH COMMON OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -m ", " --mode " none|fast|standard|best"
Select compression mode where supported.
.TP
.BR -y ", " --force
Overwrite output files intentionally.
.TP
.BR -j ", " --json
Emit JSON output where supported.
.SH GREP OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -f ", " --fixed
Use fixed-string search.
.TP
.BR -p ", " --pcre2
Use PCRE2 regex mode.
.TP
.BR -e ", " --extract
Print extracted matches.
.TP
.BR -t ", " --top
Aggregate extracted matches. Requires --extract.
.TP
.BR -l ", " --limit " N"
Limit top output rows.
.TP
.BR -a ", " --cap " N"
Limit distinct extracted values for top aggregation.
.TP
.BR -r ", " --truncate " BYTES"
Truncate extracted values before counting and display.
.TP
.BR -g ", " --paths
Print input paths with at least one match.
.TP
.BR -s ", " --strict
Verify each candidate chunk before emitting output from that chunk.
.SH CONVERT
.B zlg convert
supports already-compressed inputs. Plain logs should use
.B zlg compress
instead.
.PP
Supported input strategy:
.TP
.B .zst
Uses internal zstd support.
.TP
.B .gz
Uses gzip from PATH.
.TP
.B .bz2
Uses bzip2 from PATH.
.TP
.B .xz
Uses xz from PATH.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
zlg compress app.log -o app.log.zlg
zlg grep -f 'needle' app.log.zlg
zlg grep -pte '(?<=status=)[a-z]+' app.log.zlg
zlg tail -n 100 app.log.zlg
zlg stats app.log.zlg
zlg convert app.log.gz app.log.zlg -m fast
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Richard S. Westmoreland <dev@rswestmore.land>
.SH LICENSE
MIT OR Apache-2.0
.SH SEE ALSO
grep(1), gzip(1), bzip2(1), xz(1), zstd(1)
